.Dd December 26, 2025
.Dt INITVIZ 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm initviz
.Nd viewer for init and boot process performance analysis results
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hiqntv
.Op Fl f Ar format
.Op Fl o Ar path
.Op Fl -crop-after Ar process
.Op Fl -annotate Ar process
.Op Fl -annotate-file Ar filename
.Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a graphical program to view the data recorded by
.Xr bootchartd 1 .
It can render charts interactively or export them to PNG, SVG, or PDF formats.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Show summary of options.
.It Fl -version
Show version of program.
.It Fl i , Fl -interactive
Start in interactive mode with GUI.
.It Fl f Ar format , Fl -format Ns = Ns Ar format
Image format: png, svg, or pdf (default: png).
.It Fl o Ar path , Fl -output Ns = Ns Ar path
Output path (file or directory) where charts are stored.
.It Fl n , Fl -no-prune
Do not prune the process tree.
.It Fl q , Fl -quiet
Suppress informational messages.
.It Fl t , Fl -boot-time
Only display the boot time in text format (stdout).
.It Fl -very-quiet
Suppress all messages except errors.
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Print all messages.
.It Fl -profile
Profile rendering of chart (only useful in batch mode with
.Fl f ) .
.It Fl -show-pid
Show process IDs in the chart as
.Ql processname [pid] .
.It Fl -show-all
Show all process information in the chart as
.Ql /process/path/exe [pid] [args] .
.It Fl -crop-after Ns = Ns Ar process
Crop chart when idle after
.Ar process
is started.
.It Fl -annotate Ns = Ns Ar process
Annotate position where
.Ar process
is started.
Can be specified multiple times.
To create a single annotation when any one of a set of processes is
started, use commas to separate the names.
.It Fl -annotate-file Ns = Ns Ar filename
Filename to write annotation points to.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/var/log/bootchart.tgz" -compact
.It Pa /var/log/bootchart.tgz
Default location of collected boot data.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
View boot chart interactively:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
initviz -i /var/log/bootchart.tgz
.Ed
.Pp
Generate PNG output:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
initviz -f png -o bootchart.png /var/log/bootchart.tgz
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bootchartd 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
is based on
.Sy bootchart2
and
.Sy pybootchartgui .
.Pp
Original bootchart2 was written by
.An Michael Meeks Aq Mt michael.meeks@novell.com ,
.An Anders Norgaard Aq Mt anders.norgaard@gmail.com ,
.An Scott James Remnant Aq Mt scott@ubuntu.com ,
and
.An Henning Niss Aq Mt henningniss@gmail.com .
.Pp
This manual page was adapted from the original written by
.An David Paleino Aq Mt dapal@debian.org .
